Paul Graham's essays are always entertaining to read. My favourite
essay, which I also try to keep in the back of my head whenever a
"brilliant" idea comes along, is How to Get Startup Ideas.

"The way to get startup ideas is not to try to think of startup ideas.
It's to look for problems, preferably problems you have yourself." One
week ago I decided to solve a problem which has been an annoyance for
a long time: Referencing. Throughout high-school, being able to
reference books, articles and websites is an important part of the
curriculum. Failing to do so will almost certainly negativly affect
your grade.

In combination with Bootstrap, Angular, a simple crawler, a
MySQL-backend glued together with a REST API and some good ol' elbow
grease - LittList was born.  LittList lets you search for books by
author, title, ISBN or content, in a huge database consisting of
metadata for books. The student then proceeds by adding the references
that were used. Lastly the student clicks Generate and a properly
formatted bibliography is returned.

I launched the site on the evening of the 24th of November by posting
the link to a couple of private Facebook Groups. The response was
overwhelmingly positive! I quickly received a lot of feedback
regarding the technical implementation and the general userinterface.
It was extremely fun, not to mention addictive, to monitor the traffic
in realtime with Piwik, and getting appreciative e-mails. In the
course of 5 days the site had received about 5.2 thousand unique
visitors and over 4.8 thousand bibliographies had been generated.

It did not take long before other websites started noticing the post
on Facebook, which was rapidly gaining traction (in the form of likes
and comments). As a result, StudentTorget.no published an article
which led to even more traffic. Due to a relativly poor and
inconsiderate programmed crawler, the CPU of the server LittList was
hosted on started to choke. Luckily, I managed to resolve the issue
before crashing the entire box.

Even though only one week has passed, it has been very rewarding to
hear that LittList actually helps students who are fed up with
spending time formatting bibliographies. I guess writing the
assignment/paper in the first place is boring enough.
